=head1 NAME

Karasuma::Config::JSON - A JSON-based application configuration loader

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use Karasuma::Config::JSON;
  use Path::Class;
  
  $json_f = file("config.json");
  $config = Karasuma::Config::JSON->new_from_json_f($json_f);
  $config->base_d(dir("config/data"));
  warn $config->get_text("hoge");
  warn $config->get_file_text("fuga");

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<Karasuma::Config::JSON> module is an application configuration
loader, which reads JSON file and extracts values written directly or
indirectly in the file.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=item $config = Karasuma::Config::JSON->new_from_json_f($f)

Create a new instance of the configuration loader with specified JSON
file.  The argument to the method must be a L<Path::Class::File>
object for the JSON file.

=item $config->base_d($d)

Set the base directory for the indirect configuration values.  The
argument to the method must be a L<Path::Class::Dir> object for the
directory.

=item $config = Karasuma::Config::JSON->new_from_env

Create a new instance of the configuration loader using environment
variables.  Two environment variable must be set before the invocation
of the method.  The C<KARASUMA_CONFIG_JSON> variable identifies the
JSON file (same as the argument to the C<new_from_json_f> method).
The C<KARASUMA_CONFIG_FILE_DIR_NAME> variable identifies the base
directory (same as the argument to the C<base_d> method).

=item $value = $config->get_text($key)

Return the textual value in the JSON file with the specified key.  If
the JSON file contains the object which has the name/value pair whose
name is the argument to the method, its value is returned.  Otherwise,
the C<undef> value is returned.

=item $value = $config->get_file_text($key)

Return the textual value in the file whose name is specified in the
JSON file with the specified key.  If the JSON file contains the
object which has the name/value pair whose name is the argument to the
method, and if resolving the value as the file name relative to the
base directory (specified by the C<base_d> method) results in a file,
then the content of the file is returned by interpreting it as a UTF-8
encoded text.  Otherwise, the C<undef> value is returned.

=item $value = $config->get_file_base64_text($key)

Return the textual value in the Base64-encoded file whose name is
specified in the JSON file with the specified key.  If the JSON file
contains the object which has the name/value pair whose name is the
argument to the method, and if resolving the value as the file name
relative to the base directory (specified by the C<base_d> method)
results in a file, then the content of the file is returned by
interpreting it as a Base64-encoded UTF-8 text.  Otherwise, the
C<undef> value is returned.

=item $value = $config->get_file_json($key)

Return the JSON-decoded data structure in the file whose name is
specified in the JSON file with the specified key.  If the JSON file
contains the object which has the name/value pair whose name is the
argument to the method, and if resolving the value as the file name
relative to the base directory (specified by the C<base_d> method)
results in a file, then the content of the file is returned by
interpreting it as a JSON-encoded data.  Otherwise, the C<undef> value
is returned.

=item $value = $config->get_file_json_base64values($key)

Return the JSON-decoded pairs of names and Base64-decoded values in
the file whose name is specified in the JSON file with the specified
key.  If the JSON file contains the object which has the name/value
pair whose name is the argument to the method, and if resolving the
value as the file name relative to the base directory (specified by
the C<base_d> method) results in a file, then the content of the file
is returned by interpreting it as a JSON-encoded name/value pairs
where values are encoded in Base64.  Otherwise, the C<undef> value is
returned.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

See C<t/config-json.t> and C<t/data/test1.json>.

=head1 DEPENDENCY

The module supports Perl 5.8 or later.  Following modules are
required:

L<Encode>, L<MIME::Base64>.

L<Path::Class>.

L<JSON::Functions::XS>
<https://github.com/wakaba/perl-json-functions-xs> and L<JSON::XS>.

=head1 DEVELOPMENT

Latest version of the module is available from
<https://github.com/wakaba/karasuma-config>.

Tests are run at Travis CI
<http://travis-ci.org/wakaba/karasuma-config>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wakaba <wakabatan@hatena.ne.jp>.

=head1 LICENSE

Copyright 2012 Hatena <http://www.hatena.ne.jp/>.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=cut
